Now, let's go to ofWork Station, where we will implement Yago tracing.
Let's connect to that.
Let's wait for it to get connected.
OK, we are connected.
Let's go to a project directly and then Dr Demonstration directly.
So these are the demonstrations that we have, and then let's go to tracing directly.
So let's go there
addressing directly.
We have
and Wi-Fi in Docker compose and fluent document for Fluent.
We haven't made any changes, so logging centralised logging will be enabled as it is.
The changes are there only for tracing that maybe their environment.
So environment file, what we have done is we have added these this configuration to enable Yeager tracing
for our services and we have provided host input information for the good agent.
Now another thing that we have done is that we have provided a switch over here to demonstrate is synchronous
flow.
So first, we will look at the press report with synchronous flows and then we will make one of the
order flows as asynchronous and we will see what kind of results we get for that.
So that's environment variables.
Actually, that is one thing which is missing over here, which should have been configured as environment
variable only.
But it is right now not an environment variable, and that is when we discussed this, that configuration
say here the jiggered agent, there's the hostname that we have given.
It will work because that's what it is in our current setup.
But I'm going to change this and I'll make this as an environment variable.
So you may see that change very well.
Let's go back to our demonstration so that that's one thing we do not have in environment variables
of.
Now, let's look at Docker Compose, find in Docker Compose file fluently.
We already had ElasticSearch cube on our debt.
Now we have added Yegor Agent Yeager Collector and Yegor Kwadee.
So let's look at them one by one.
So first one is Yeager agent.
Here we are getting this image directly from Docker registry.
Then we have exposed some ports over here, so your agent will be contacted by our client to UDP.
So that's why this here on this board, we have to mention it that this isn't usually your.
Then the next thing that we need to specify what kind of storage will be used for storing this trace
information, which is in the form of trace bands.
So we have mentioned over here that it will be stored in ElasticSearch.
So yet it does not host port information of ElasticSearch.
It only needs to know the format in which it is going to store the message.
So that's what we have specified over here.
And then it needs to know where you're collected is and through this.
Command line parameter, we have specified the host and board information of Yeager collected rest,
everything is usually there's nothing special going on over there.
Then we have Yeager collected again the images coming from Docker registry and we have exposed some
required boards over here.
He has to this type is ElasticSearch, and we have also provided the ElasticSearch host input information.
So here we have specified ElasticSearch host input information and the number of shards.
These are scalability related parameters.
So we have kept them to their default values.
So that's about Yeager collected.
Again, nothing special going on over there.
Yeager query again, nothing special.
You must be operating from Docker registry.
We are exposed some boards and the storage type is ElasticSearch.
We have provided ElasticSearch location and that's about it so that this is pretty much that we need
to do in terms of configuration for younger components and all of the installation.
And all those things, as we know, is already taken care by Docker containers and these containers
we are getting from Docker registry itself.
So there is there isn't much to be done over here, and that's one beautiful thing about Docker containers
or any other container.
OK, so that's the configuration part.
So all our components are configured and we have all environment variables in place now that we are
ready to run our system.
The only check that I will do is that I'll check if anything is running.
Nothing is running, so we are clean.
We are good to go.
So let's start our system with the usual command of Docker compose.
I just make sure that everything runs over here, because last time I think.
I got some error, so.
Last time we got an error where we had to again restart, we have to issue this command again, restart
these containers, and it would hopefully we won't face that problem again.
So here right now, it is downloading all the images from Docker registry once that is done.
It is one by one start the components in the dependency order.
Remember, we have said that dependency.
So it's like it has successfully created the Docker containers.
They are running right now.
They will have to run to completion.
The other that you can use this instead of Docker compose.
Come on, we can use Docker command.
OK, so this Docker container has started.
So there are quite a few containers on this machine.
What we will do is once test gear to service comes up, that will be an indication that a majority of
these services would have come up or they would be ready to come up.
So once this is up, then we will resume our demonstration against.
We're going to wait for this.
I'm going to pause.
Do we do all?
OK, so Argueta service has come up.
Let's check our system once again.
OK, so hopefully our system should be up.
We can check that by actually connecting to our system.
So let's take the IP address and connect to the load balancer that's log in first anywhere monitoring
that that can be accessed even if we're not logged in.
Because that's the purpose of that tab that if you want to debug where the problem is with services
up or not, that we can do with the help of this monitoring tab.
So log in is not required, but for other types, let's say like data, in-home log in is required.
So now I have clipping services and I have got back Respawn's for online services.
Database is fine.
So everything should be OK right now, so we are ready to connect to our yaga UI.
So let's click this link.
This will take us to.
Yeager homepage, and here right now, there are some services which are listed over there, so let's
just check what do they show?
So authorization service, it seems, has got some call.
Let's see what's there in order service.
So order service, the only goal right now is get service status, so there isn't much that does happen
for the service.
There isn't much that has happened for.
Product service, again, this is get so status, there's just had a check mark for authorization,
so it's because we have logged in once, so there will be a trace to within.
This post should be the one where this login was done.
So if you want to actually filter on the kind of request, we should be able to do that over here.
So get service status, get user credits of these on these operations.
Also, we can do a filter.
So there are quite a few features over here that we can take advantage of.
But the one that we are interested in right now is that belongs to order service that will be along
Trace.
And that's why we're interested in that.
But there we do not have anything other than get service status, so we can get these messages over
here once we create some product, once we create some order for that, we will need some data.
There should be some products in our system.
And right now, products are empty, so let's create digital if we hit this clear data button.
This should create some products.
Let's wait for that, so products are created, it's not just product, the entire data.
So let's check for the status of product data.
Is there inventory data that's there so we can buy some products now?
Let's go to product page and let's buy the C programming language book.
It's about two minutes of this that this two part let's go to cart and now we can create order.
So the order is created now, there should be some trade statements, more statements for this sort
of service.
Let me move, Wayne, this business.
So now we have got more three statements.
So this one is for create order and the other one is for there would be some for guard.
This similarly so there will be lots of requests that would have come to order service because this
also host guard service.
But the one we're interested is in is this create order API and this is originating from web application
that we have instrumented web application.
So here, if you see this, only in your services are listed over here, but they are in no particular
order over here.
But once we go inside this, this will be in a perfect order.
This is the time consumed by the replication service.
Not that it was doing anything.
It was busy calling Gateway Service Gateway Service for the entire duration was busy calling or the
service or the service did some processing.
It did some database calls over here and some processing over here, and it does make a call to inventory
service.
So this is the one that we did manually instrumentation we wrote support for.
This is basically here called inventory service, and this is where inventory service actually got started.
So this is the duration where inventories of service processing and this is in order service where we
call inventory service.
So there is some time lost between network request and over here in response.
So this way we can analyze the completeness of our workflow, starting from our web application down
to the most downstream service.
And for these services also, we can look into these database calls.
So these are queries we can look at that what queries were made to a database or let's say this was
deleted from card line.
So we can check how much time each query is consuming.
And let's say this order service is too long.
And we do not want single spam.
We want to find spans four different functions.
Then we can create spans manually.
By the way, we created it for inventory service client.
So we like to do it manually.
We haven't done that, but we have not done it because we were interested in what all component times.
So this is good enough for us this day where we can analyze performance of our APIs.
So there is one last thing that we need to check over here, and that is that right now, this whole
call was synchronous.
So what if, if we want this create order to be asynchronous, it should happen, really.
In two steps, First Order requests should be accepted in the message queue and then orders would be
picked up and it should be really processed and in ready service processing should be done.
And along with the rest of the processing.
So it should really happen in two steps which are separated by message, queue, produce and consume.
So let's go ahead and restart our system with a changed configuration to see how asynchronous calls
will behave.
So for that, let's go to our system once again.
Over here, we will go to environment variables and environment variables.
We will come to order processed using.
It is set to false right now.
We will center to true and now we will save this.
So but before I exit this, let me explain you this here we will use a local queue.
We are not using any full fledged message queue.
This local queue just simulates a message queue.
It will do the processing of our order.
The second step processing in a separate third circle mimic a message queue, giving our API a feel
of asynchronous workflow.
So let's go ahead and execute this for this first.
Let's stop our order service.
Then once it is stopped, we have to clean the container.
And there it is, done now, we can start the orders of this.
While it is starting, let's check the logs.
So it is starting right now, it is the only service which is starting, so it should not take long
time.
OK.
It has started in 19 seconds, so this looks good to some bad.
OK, I can see that environment variable process isn't so it started over, get ordered out process
is Ithink that is set through right now.
So at any point in time, if you have to check what are the actual environment variables, are services
running, this is a place to check that.
OK, let's close below.
And now let's go to you.
And here we will create one more order.
So for that, we will go to products that select this go to great book this time.
Two units to guard.
Let's go to guard and now let's create the order.
So the order is in process to right now.
It is not created, so it will be created, so that will have to go to orders.
And here we see now the order has been processed and it is in created state.
So it got processed asynchronously.
Now let's go to the order, the order service.
We have already selected one out of you.
You know, that's to find traces.
So this is the most recent race that we have.
So here we have create order.
And this was a few seconds ago and then the other one get orders is also a few seconds ago.
Let's check this one to create order one.
We are interested in.
Now.
Here, if we see this, this has actually happened in two steps, because if you see this web where
that span has got over here, it said in the previous case, if we can go to that.
Let me just filter.
This will create order.
Yeah.
Daughter from.
Let me just fill 30 places, so this is the previous one.
If we look at the span of this web applications been extended right up to the end, similarly for the
service.
But if we go back and if we look at the latest.
Let us trace that view of what this web application gateway service in order service their debt data
processing, they serve the message in the queue.
And later on, or the service at some point in time picked up this particular processing of order from
the dummy message queue that we had and it did the processing.
And it is useful because if you see it as this processing has taken a really long time.
But just to accept the order and providing response to the user that the order is in process, take
that didn't take much time.
So for these kind of flows, it makes sense to do them as asynchronous workflows.
So this is how we can even press our entire workflows, whether they are asynchronous or they are asynchronous.
So this is a pretty powerful thing that we have, and it is a must for any large scale distributed system
because otherwise we have no clue which components of our system are creating problems for us in terms
of performance and in the first place, whether even our system is performing or not.
That also is something that we can find out to these statements, but there is more that we can do in
terms of determining the overall system performance and that is done through metrics.
So that is something that we will look at is our next topic.